---
hide:
  - footer
---

bodo.pandas {#bodopandas}
===========

Bodo.pandas is an optimized and distributed dataframe library that is a
drop-in replacement for the Pandas library.  The library lazily collects
dataframe and series operations and determines the optimum point to
execute the collected operations.  This allows the library to apply
advanced query optimizations that in some cases can reduce the runtime 
of your application by hundreds of times.  Eagerly executed dataframe
libraries such as Pandas cannot apply most of these optimizations.

Dataframes and series generated by this library are compatible with
those used by Bodo's JIT decorator.  Thus, a user may seemlessly
transition back-and-forth between accessing dataframes through library
mode and manipulating them through Bodo's JIT decorator.  

This dataframe library exposes the full Pandas API and for cases where
support for a function (or specific modes of a function) from that API
is lacking, the library can fallback to attempting to execute that
operation with Pandas.  However, if the cumulative data for the
relevant dataframes is larger than the memory of the node on which
you started the application then this fallback may fail.  In either
case, this fallback process requires the copying of all the distributed
data for the dataframe back to the starting node which can be a very
time consuming process. Bodo DataFrames can thus operate
in one of three modes: 1) automatic fallback is disabled and an error
is generated if fallback would be necessary to execute the operation,
2) automatic fallback is enabled but a performance warning is generated
each time a dataframe has to be copied back to the start node in order
to be executed, and 3) automatic fallback is enabled but the performance
warning is disabled.  This fallback is controlled by the environment
variable BODO\_PANDAS\_FALLBACK which when not present or having the
value 0 the automatic fallback is disabled.  When present and having
the value 1 then automatic fallback with performance warning is enabled
and when having the value 2 automatic fallback without performance
warning is enabled.
