# Bodo 2024.9 Release (Date: 9/25/2024) {#September_2024}

### New Features:

- Added support for `pd.Series.argmin`, `pd.Series.argmax`, `pd.Series.str.removeprefix`, `pd.Series.str.removesuffix`, `pd.Series.str.casefold` and `Series.str.fullmatch`.

* Added support for `pd.Series.str.partition` with expand=True.
* Added support for support `#!sql HAVERSINE` with Decimal input data type.
* Changed Bodo logger defaults to stdout instead of stderr.

### Performance Improvements:

- Changed Iceberg write to use Arrow azurefs instead of hadoop.
- Changed to use Iceberg metadata instead of Parquet metadata for file scan planning to speed up Iceberg reads overall.
- Added ability to fetch metadata for Snowflake-managed Iceberg tables at the beginning of query execution and in-parallel for faster Iceberg file scan planning.
- Added streaming support for the window functions `#!sql COUNT(X)`, `#!sql COUNT_IF`, `#!sql BOOLAND_AGG`, `#!sql BOOLOR_AGG`, `#!sql BITAND_AGG`, `#!sql BITOR_AGG` and `#!sql BITXOR_AGG`.
- Added streaming support for the window functions `#!sql LEAD`, `#!sql LAG` and `#!sql NTILE` when a `#!sql PARTITION BY` clause is provided.
- Added streaming support for the window functions `#!sql FIRST_VALUE`, `#!sql LAST_VALUE`, `#!sql ANY_VALUE`, `#!sql MIN`, and `#!sql MAX` on numeric data.
- Ensured BodoSQL decomposes the window functions `#!sql PERCENT_RANK`, `#!sql CUME_DIST` and `#!sql RATIO_TO_REPORT` into other window functions that can be computed together with streaming.
- Enabled computation of multiple window functions at once while streaming.
- Enabled window functions computed with an `#!sql OVER ()` window in streaming to spill data to disk, reducing peak memory utilization.
- Improved the quality of BodoSQL planner to reduce redundant computation.
- Added various optimizations for the streaming sort operator.
- Made the BodoSQL planner more aggressive with eliminating common subexpressions that are not top-level expressions.

### Bug Fixes:

- Improved the amount of possible query decorrelation in BodoSQL.
- Fixed a bug in Snowflake-managed Iceberg table writer where the catalog integration creation could fail in the presence of another concurrent writer.
- Fixed various bugs in the streaming sort operator.
- Fixed behavior of `pd.Series.str.split` when `n>=1` but the delimiter is not provided.
- Improved stability when reading from CSV files.

### Dependency Upgrades:

- Upgraded to Pandas 2.2.
