# Bodo 2024.8 Release (Date: 8/6/2024) {#August_2024}

### New Features:

- Expanded decimal support:
  - Added native decimal support for addition/subtraction.
  - Added native decimal support for `MEDIAN` with `GROUP BY`.
  - Added native decimal support for the following numeric functions: `ATAN`, `ATAN2`, `ATANH`, `COS`, `COSH`, `COT`, `DEGREES`, `RADIANS`, `SIN`, `SINH`, `TAN`, `TANH`, `EXP`, `POWER`, `LOG`, `LN`, `SQRT`, `SQUARE`, `ROUND`, `ABS`, `DIV0`, `SIGN`.
  - Support for binary operations between decimal and integer.
- Extended use of low-ndv IN join filters to Iceberg.
- Generate Join Filters with empty build tables and Snowflake IO.
- Support for Join Filters with Interval Joins.
- Streaming support for several more aggregate patterns, especially with `PIVOT`.
- Streaming support for grouping sets without the empty set.
- Support Create Table As Select (CTAS) with `TABLE COMMENTS`, `COLUMN COMMENTS`, and `TBLPROPERTIES` for Iceberg.

### Performance Improvements:

- Revamp shuffle in SQL join and groupby to use non-blocking MPI which can improve performance significantly.
- Improved streaming performance for more rank window functions (`RANK`, `PERCENT_RANK`, `CUME_DIST`, `ROW_NUMBER`).
- Added streaming support for `MAX(X) OVER ()`, `MIN(X) OVER ()`, `SUM(X) OVER ()`, and `COUNT(X) OVER ()`.
- Expanded sort for the streaming sort based implementation of window functions to all array types.
- Started decomposing `AVG`, var/std functions, covar functions, and `CORR` into combinations of sum/count to both allow for decimal support, and also allow for increased re-use of computations when multiple such functions are present.
- Significant improvements to Iceberg Scan Planning performance such as fetching the parquet metadata in parallel.
- Improved shuffle performance for variable length types (string/array).
- Improved BodoSQL’s ability to prune empty plan sections.
- Improved performance of decimal to string and decimal to double casting.

### Bug Fixes:

- Fixed bug related to string columns in streaming join sometimes causing segmentation faults.
- Fixed bug when calling `DATEADD` (and similar functions) with month/quarter/year units when the input date was a leapday.
- Fixed bug in verbose mode that would cause incorrect timer information to be displayed for non-streaming rel nodes.
- Fixed bug writing where writing to an iceberg table with a non-iceberg type (`int8`/`uint8`) caused an error instead of an upcast.
- Fixed a bug that would cause `SHOW TABLES` commands to error when the tables had a large number of rows/bytes.
- Fixed a bug in comparisons for elements of nested arrays with dictionary-encoded data.

### Dependency Upgrades:

- Upgraded to Numba 0.60.

## 2024.8.1 New Features and Improvements

### New Features:

- Added support for storage account name and storage account key and VM-identities when using Azure.
- Added support for `SUM` on decimals when invoked as a window function or a regular aggregation without groupby.
- Added support for `VAR_POP`, `VAR_SAMP`, `STDDEV_POP`, `STDDEV_SAMP`, `COVAR_POP`, `COVAR_SAMP`, `CORR`, `PERCENTILE_DISC` and `PERCENTILE_CONT` on decimals.
- Added support for `FACTORIAL`, `CEIL`, `FLOOR`, `ROUND`, and `TRUNC` on decimals.
- Added support for `DIV0NULL`.

### Performance Improvements:

- SQL Planner improvements to better handle use of NDV values and nullability of functions.
- Ensured BodoSQL now decomposes `VAR_POP`, `VAR_SAMP`, `STDDEV_POP`, `STDDEV_SAMP`, `COVAR_POP`, `COVAR_SAMP` and `CORR` into combinations of `SUM` and `COUNT` to improve re-use of computations across multiple functions.
- Added streaming support for `AVG(X) OVER ()` and `COUNT(*) OVER ()`.
- Added streaming support for `SUM` as a window function when there are partitions but no frames.
- Improved performance of reading string columns for Iceberg tables. This is only available on the Bodo Cloud Platform at this stage.
- Improved robustness when pushing down very large IN queries with Iceberg.
- Enabled pruning an entire Iceberg table via a JoinFilter with an empty build table.
- Enabled rewriting `COUNT(DISTINCT)` to use an internal optimization via grouping sets that allows more equal work distribution across cores.
- Improve performance of reading small Iceberg tables.

### Bug Fixes:

- Fixed bug enabling streaming for `CUME_DIST` and `PERCENT_RANK` when there are no partition columns.
- Arrays of tuple values are now returned to regular Python properly as arrays of tuples instead of arrays of structs.
- Fixed bugs that prevented compiling complex nested UDF inlining cases.

### Dependency Upgrades:

- Upgraded to Calcite 1.37.
- Upgraded to Arrow 17.
