# Bodo 2024.2 Release (Date: 02/07/2024) {#February_2024}

## New Features and Improvements

### New Features:

- Added support for overloaded UDF/UDTF definitions.
- Added support for the Snowflake table function `#!sql EXTERNAL_TABLE_FILES`, which requires connecting to a Snowflake Catalog.
- Increased support for variant arguments in functions relating to semi-structured arrays.
- Added recognition of `#!sql TIMESTAMPNTZ` as an alias for `#!sql TIMESTAMP_NTZ` and `#!sql TIMESTAMPLTZ` as an alias for `#!sql TIMESTAMP_LTZ`.
- Added support for queries where the source clause is in the form `#!sql FROM (tablename)`.
- Added support for the `#!sql COUNT` aggregation function on all semi-structured column types.
- Added support for casting decimal values to integers and vice versa.
- Added support for `DATE - DOUBLE`.
- Increased support for type coercion between semi-structured types.
- Enabled implicit lateral joins when using table functions like `#!sql FLATTEN`.
- Added support for writing decimal scalars into integer/float arrays.

### Performance Improvements:

- Reduced peak memory usage from queries containing filters on the condition `#!sql ROW_NUMBER() OVER (...) = 1`.
- Removed extra runtime casts when the source type and target type are represented the same in Bodo.

### Bug Fixes:

- Fixed bug sometimes preventing codegen from completing when a join has a condition comparing a column to a constant string.
- Fixed bug causing incorrect behavior of a filter on the condition `#!sql ROW_NUMBER() OVER (...) = 1` when the columns to order by are of certain types.
- Fixed a bug that could lead to an error when some columns in an Aggregate operation are semi-structured.
- Added a logging message when a view can’t be inlined due to access issues.
- Fixed a bug preventing correct recognition of table names when using `#!sql FLATTEN` in some situations.

### Dependency Upgrades:

- Upgrade Iceberg to 1.43.

## 2024.2.1 New Features and Improvements

### New Features:

- Support calling `#!sql TO_DOUBLE` on variants.
- Support for `$` inside of compound identifiers.

### Performance Improvements:

- Improved BodoSQL query plans by increasing ability to infer predicates.

### Bug Fixes:

- Fixed bug sometimes preventing compiling queries on BodoSQL when they contain a join where the condition contains an `IN` subquery clause.
- Fixed bug sometimes preventing compiling queries on BodoSQL when they contain a `FLATTEN` or `SPLIT_TO_TABLE` call inside an `IN` subquery clause.
- Fixed bug preventing compiling some queries with no-groupby aggregations followed by an `ORDER BY` that referenced columns that wouldn’t be present after the aggregation.
- Fixed an issue where certain strings would not be properly escaped in case statements.
- Fixed a false validation error issue that sometimes occurred with `IS DISTINCT FROM X`.
- Fixed an issue with variant and null type handling in UDFs.
