# Bodo 2025.3 Release (Date: 03/06/2025) {#March_2025}
=====================================

### 🎉 Highlights

In this release, we're excited to add Windows support to Bodo. We also continue our focus on Iceberg and enhance our support for Iceberg Rest Catalogs.

### ✨ New Features

 - Bodo is now available on Windows on pip and Conda.
 - BodoSQL's TabularCatalog has become IcebergRestCatalog.
 - Test suites for Iceberg Rest Catalog using Polaris.

### 🐛 Bug Fixes

 - Fixed a hang when using spawn mode from an interactive Python session.
 - Fixed an incorrect output array type when rewriting free variables to arguments in UDFs

## 2025.3.1

### 🎉 Highlights

In this release, we introduce the `map_parititions` API, extend our Parquet I/O to support Multi-Index, and upgrade to the latest Arrow and Pyiceberg!

### ✨ New Features

 - Added `BodoDataFrame.map_partitions` API, which applies a function in parallel over partitions of the dataframe.
 - Extend our Parquet read and write to support Multi-Index for Pandas DataFrames.

### ⚙️ Dependency Upgrades

 - Upgraded to Pyiceberg 0.9.
 - Upgraded to Arrow 19.
 - Removed bodo-azure-sas-token-provider, Bodo uses Arrow for Azure IO.

## 2025.3.2
Minor bugfix release.
- Fixed bug in to_parquet when running from cache.
- Fixed outputs for jupyter notebooks with spawn mode when the kernel is run separately from the notebook server.

## 2025.3.2
### ✨ New Features
- Experimental support for iceberg filesystem catalog support on GCS

### 🐛 Bug Fixes
- Replace deprecated get_field_by_name with field
- Fix Snowflake write to ADLS
- Fix parquet write to ADLS
