# Bodo 2025.6 Release (Date: 06/06/2025) {#June_2025}

### 🎉 Highlights

In this release, we are excited to announce support for reading Iceberg tables, merge, sort, as well as 83 methods across Series, Series.str, and Series.dt in the DataFrame Library. Refer to our [documentation][dataframe-lib] for a complete list of features now supported.

### ✨ New Features

- Added support for [`pd.read_iceberg`](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/dev/reference/api/pandas.read_iceberg.html) (from Pandas 3.0 APIs). The implementation includes optimizations such as limit, projection, and filter pushdown as well as features such as time travel.
- Added initial support for `merge()` for the `how=”inner”` case.
- Added initial support for `sort_values()`.
- Added 46 Series.str methods such as `str.find()` and `str.partition()`.
- Added 30 Series.dt accessors and methods such as `dt.dayofweek` and `dt.is_month_start`.
- Added 7 Series methods including `Series.isin` and `Series.clip`.
- Improved support for arbitrarily complex DataFrame filter expressions and additional date/time types.
- Added same arbitrarily complex Series expression support.
- Added basic infrastructure for groupby, full support will be included in the next release.
- Improved execution time of DataFrame and Series `head()` calls.
- Improved performance of many computations substantially.


### 🐛 Bug Fixes
- Improved handling of null columns in DataFrame Library `read_parquet()`.
- Various bug fixes for `DataFrame.apply()` and `Series.map()`.
- Fixed bug related to copying Series with Indexes.


