# Bodo 2026.5 Release (Date: 05/22/2026) {#May_2026}


### 🎉 Highlights

This release, we are excited to add support for more GPU operators including sort, Iceberg I/O, and string functions in Bodo DataFrames' [GPU execution mode][df_gpu], available through the CUDA-enabled variant of our conda package, in addition to several bug fixes and UX improvements.


### ✨ New Features

#### GPU execution mode
The following operators now run on GPUs:

- Iceberg read and write support: DataFrame.to_iceberg() and read_iceberg()

- sort_values()

- Cross joins

- String functions: str.contains, str.match, str.slice, and str.strip

- Series.isin()

- Series.notna() & Series.notnull()

- Taking the power of a Series (i.e. Series.\_\_pow\_\_)

- SeriesGroupby & DataFrameGroupby all() and any()

In addition to these new operators, we made the following improvements:

- Automatically set OMPI_MCA_pml=ucx during package import; users no longer have to explicitly set OMPI_MCA_pml.

- Added support for the dropna argument in groupby.

- Changed GPU batch size behavior to adjust batch size based on system GPU memory.

- Fixed correctness issue in groupby nunique().

- Fixed correctness issues with groupby Pandas fallback.

- Fixed hang in broadcast join.

- Fixed hang in pipelines that end in limit and transfer data between CPU and GPU.

- Handle empty data/all null data in Series reductions.

- Write Pandas metadata in to_parquet().

#### Bodo Features
The following features were added to both the CUDA and non-CUDA variants of the Bodo package:

- Added support for taking the power of a Series (i.e. Series.\_\_pow\_\_) on CPU.

- Added support for SeriesGroupby & DataFrameGroupby all() and any() on CPU.

- Added support for specifying lists of functions in SeriesGroupby & DataFrameGroupby aggregate() function dicts (e.g. `df.groupby(...).agg({“col1”: [“mean”, “count”], “col2”: [“sum”, “count”]})`).

### 🐛 Bug Fixes

- Fixed null and NA handling to match Pandas.

- Fixed bug in parallel join's termination condition.

- Fixed output schema of groupby to ensure Arrow types are used in key columns.

### 🛠️ Infrastructure

- Added option in Pixi to build Bodo with CUDA aware MPICH, enabling GPU execution in multi-node clusters.

- Made improvements to the BodoSQL C++ backend, enabling more types of queries to run without falling back to JIT compilation.

### ⚙️ Dependency Changes

- Upgraded Numba dependency to 0.65.

