Bodo 2024.5 Release (Date: 5/3/2024) {#May_2024}
=====================================

### New Features:

- Added an environment variable `BODO_SQL_STYLE` to control some of the defaults for BodoSQL’s SQL dialect. The default is `SNOWFLAKE` which uses the Snowflake protocols for identifier case sensitivity and null ordering defaults. Another option for the environment variable is `SPARK` which uses spark’s defaults for identifier case sensitivity and null ordering defaults. The environment variable’s value is not case-sensitive.
- Added support for groupby sum of decimal values
- Added support for writing puffin files with Iceberg writes by setting `BODO_ENABLE_THETA_SKETCHES=1`. A future release will enable this by default.
- Added support for casting between decimal values with different precision and scale
- Added support for multiplication of two decimal scalars/arrays.
- Added support for `CREATE SCHEMA` and `DROP SCHEMA` commands in Iceberg and Snowflake


### Performance Improvements:

- Slightly reduced the total number of metadata queries made to Snowflake during compilation time to determine when a string column should be dictionary encoded by removing unnecessary/redundant requests.


### Bug Fixes:

- Fixed a bug that caused some Iceberg nullability filters to not be pushed down.
- Fixed a rarely occurring segfault when gathering a map array.
- Fixed an issue that caused an error while loading string columns from Snowflake managed Iceberg tables.
- Fixed some bugs in handling nested-types in joins.


### Dependency Upgrades:
- Upgraded to Iceberg 1.5.1


## 2024.5.1 New Features and Improvements


### New Features:
- Support `MIN` and `MAX` on string columns when GROUP BY is not provided.

### Bug Fixes:
- Adjusted BodoSQL compile-time Snowflake metadata requests to avoid an error due to changing formats of Snowflake result sets for certain description queries.


## 2024.5.2 New Features and Improvements


### New Features:
- Update BodoSQL plans to contain an explicit Cache Node to indicate when the planner is reusing part of a plan from a cached result.
- Simplified plans by concatenating RuntimeJoinFilters into a single node in BodoSQL plans.
- Updated BodoSQL plans to clarify when computation is being done by BodoSQL via updates to each plan operator’s name.
- Enabled automatic creation or updating of Theta Sketches for columns with certain data types in BodoSQL when an Iceberg table is created with `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT` or updated with `INSERT INTO`. The Theta Sketches are written to a Puffin file during an Iceberg write. See the Bodo documentation on Puffin files for more details, including how to disable this feature.
- Support casting floats to decimals.
- Support multiplying integers and decimals.
- Users can now supply statistics for Parquet datasets when using the TablePath API. This can significantly improve the quality of the SQL plans in many cases.
- Support for `CREATE VIEW` with the Snowflake Catalog

### Performance Improvements:
- Support for merging aggregates in the planner to avoid unnecessary aggregations.

### Bug Fixes:
- Output of a `SUM` aggregation with a `GROUP BY` clause on integer columns is now up-casted to int64 to prevent overflows.
- Made loading from UDF/UDTF information from Snowflake more robust to handle future Snowflake changes to metadata query outputs.
- Fixed a gap where duplicate streaming joins wouldn’t be cached.
